                      
                                        (HTML)

1.Are the HTML tags and elements the same thing?
Ans.Tags and Elements are not the same.HTML tags are used to hold the HTNL elements,and html elements holds the contet.

2.What are tags and attributes in html?
Ans.HTML tags are what defines where an HTML element starts and where it ends, HTMLattribute is what modifies an HTML element. It is usually in the form of unique words that one inserts inside the opening tag.

3.What are void elements in HTML?
Ans.A void element is an element whose content model never allows it to have contents under any circumstances.

4.What are HTML Entities?
Ans.An HTML entity is used to display invisible characters and reserved characters that would otherwise be interpreted as HTML code.

5.What are different types of lists in HTML?
Ans.There are 3 types of lists in HTML,namely:
    -Unordered List.
    -Ordered List.
    -Description List.

6.What is the 'class' attribute in HTML?
Ans.The class attribute specifies one or more classnames for an element. The class attribute is mostly used to point to a class in a style sheet.

7.What is the difference between the 'id' attribute and the 'class' attribute of HTML TABLE?
Ans.the difference between Class and ID: A Class name can be used by multiple HTML elements, while an ID name must only be used by one HTML element within the page.

8.What are the various formatting tags in HTML?
Ans.The various formatting tag can be used to set the text styles (like – bold, italic, or emphasized, etc.), highlighting the text, making text superscript and subscript, etc.

9.How is cell padding different from cell spacing?
Ans.Cellpadding basically defines the space present between a table cell's border and the content present in it. Cellspacing basically defines the space present between individual adjacent cells.

10.How can we club two or more rows or columns into a single row or column in an HTML table?
Ans.It can be done by using the rowspan and colspan attribute in HTML. The rowspan is used to merge or combine the number of cells in a row whereas the colspan is used to merge column cells in a table.

11.What is the difference between a block-level element and an inline element?
Ans.They consume the entire width available irrespective of their sufficiency. They always start in a new line and have top and bottom margins. It does not contain any other elements next to it.Inline elements are those which only occupy the space bounded by the tags defining the element, instead of breaking the flow of the content.

12.How to create a hyperLink in HTML?
Ans.The <a> tag indicates where the hyperlink starts and the </a> tag indicates where it ends. Whatever text gets added inside these tags, will work as a hyperlink.

13.What is the use of an iframe tag?
Ans.The <iframe> tag specifies an inline frame. An inline frame is used to embed another document within the current HTML document.

14.What is the use of a span tag?Explain with example?
Ans.The <span> tag is an inline container used to mark up a part of a text, or a part of a document.
<p>My name is <span style="color:blue">blue</span> eyes.</p>

15.How to insert a picture into a background image of a web page?
Ans.In the body tag, specify a background image in the background attribute by passing the URL of the image or location path.
<body background = "URL or path" > Website Body </body>

16.How are active links different from normal links?
Ans.Normal links are links which are there on the page and have not been clicked yet. Active links are those links, which have just been clicked at that instant.

17.What are the different tags to separate sections of text?
Ans.There are three tags that can be used to separate the texts:
<br> tag – Usually <br> tag is used to separate the line of text. It breaks the current line and conveys the flow to the next line.
<p> tag – This contains the text in the form of a new paragraph.
<blockquote> tag – It is used to define a large quoted section.

18.What is SVG?
Ans.Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) is an XML-based vector image format for defining two-dimensional graphics, having support for interactivity and animation. The SVG specification is an open standard developed by the World Wide Web Consortium since 1999.SVG images are defined in a vector graphics format and stored in XML text files. SVG images can thus be scaled in size without loss of quality, and SVG files can be searched, indexed, scripted, and compressed.

19.What is difference between HTML and XHTML?
Ans.HTML is the standard markup language for creating web pages, while XHTML is a stricter and more standardized version of HTML. Both HTML and XHTML include a wide range of features, such as support for multimedia, styling, and scripting.

20.What are logical and physical tags in HTML?
Ans.Physical and Logical tags are used in HTML for better visibility and understanding of the text by the user on the web page. However, both tags differ from each other as suggested by their names. Logical Tags : Logical Tags are used in HTML to display the text according to the logical styles.

	 

